# Treasure Island Flood Simulator

Tool to simulate flooding on Treasure and Yerba Buena Islands in San Francisco Bay. The tool's 
simulations are used in a [virtual exhibition]() at the Treasure Island Museum, which places the island's 
redevelopment plans in historical context. 

## Methodology

Given a year, flood event frequency (50-year, 100-year, etc.), and sea-level rise scenario 
(low, medium, or high), the tool will determine which parts of Treasure and Yerba Buena islands 
will experience flooding given the rise in mean water level. A point on the islands is 
considered flooded if its elevation is below the maximum water level achieved during the 
flood event, and is connected to San Francisco Bay by a sequence of points that all 
experience flooding. Because the flood simulator relies exclusively on the mean water level, it 
considers the impacts of tides, storm surges, tsunamis, and sea-level rise, but does 
not include the impacts of wave run-up. 

The tool can also simulate flooding after simple adaptation measures (berms/walls 
and elevated pads) are added to the islands. This allows the user to determine how effective 
various proposed adaptation strategies will be in protecting the islands from future flooding. 

Island elevations come from a 2 m resolution USGS Digital Elevation Model of the San Francisco 
Bay Area ([link](https://www.usgs.gov/core-science-systems/eros/coned/science/topobathymetric-elevation-model-san-francisco-bay-area?qt-science_center_objects=0#qt-science_center_objects)). 
Mean water levels for the various flooding scenarios are taken directly from a risk assessment report 
that was prepared for the Treasure Island Community Development (TICD) organization. A copy of the 
risk assessment is included in the "literature" directory of this project. 

## Setup

This project is written in Python 3 and uses several open source python packages that are not 
included in the standard library: 
* geopandas=0.9.0
* numpy=1.19.4
* networkx=2.5

I recommend using [*Python Anaconda*](https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual) 
to set up a python environment and install the package dependencies: 

```
conda create --name treasure
conda activate treasure
conda install -c conda-forge python=3.7 numpy=1.19.4 networkx=2.5 geopandas=0.9.0
```

## Running simulations

All flooding images used in the virtual exhibition can be re-generated by navigating to 
the project's root directory and  executing `python ./treasure_island/simulate.py`
in the command line. The model is pretty slow so re-generating the images will take a while. 

## Contributors
* Lucien Simpfendoerfer: lucien.simpfendoerfer@gmail.com
